# CONTRIBUTING

## Icon guideline

### Basic

For Android icons, see [here](http://www.google.com/design/spec/style/icons.html).

#### Size

Icon file will be created with 24dp, which means 24x24px for drawable-mdpi.

#### Width

Use 2dp width for lines and radius.

#### Colors

Use white(`#ffffff`) with 80% alpha.

### Some rules to build

Icons are made with .svg files, and build script relies on
some structures or naming conventions.  
So if you want to add or edit .svg files, check this section.

#### File

##### Format

Must be `svg`.

##### Naming

For Android action bar icons, it should start with `ic_action_`.

#### Layers

##### Naming

Icon file has two layers: `background` and `icon`.  
This should be specified to `<g>` tag's `id` attribute.  

##### style attribute

Remove `style` element of `background`'s `<g>` tag.  
`background` layer will become invisible by build script.  
The build script insert `style="display:none"` after `id="background"`, so if your icon file has `style` attribute on `background`'s `<g>` tag, it will cause errors.

OK:

```xml
  <g
      inkscape:label="background"
      inkscape:groupmode="layer"
      id="background"
      transform="translate(0,-1028.3622)">
```

NG:

```xml
  <g
      inkscape:label="background"
      inkscape:groupmode="layer"
      id="background"
      style="display:inline"
      transform="translate(0,-1028.3622)">
```

## Sample app

You can check how they look like on Android app.  
If you know a little about Android apps and have SDK environment, please try it.

### Install

```sh
$ ./gradlew installDebug
```

## How to add your icon

1. Create icon with .svg format. Check guidelines carefully.
1. Execute `build.sh` to generate your icons. (See below)
1. Check if your icons are correctly generated.
1. Add your icon to sample Android app. (See below)(optional)
1. Check it on Android app. (optional)
1. Edit `app` image with GIMP and `drawable-xhdpi` icon. (optional)
1. Commit your icons.
1. Send a pull request!

### Generate icon files

#### Environment

This project's icons are generated by [export_icons](https://github.com/ksoichiro/export_icons).  
If you are a Mac OS X user, you can also install it with Homebrew.

```sh
$ brew tap ksoichiro/export_icons
$ brew install export_icons
```

#### How to generate

For convenience, all of the latest result images are included in `dist` directory.  
If you add or edit .svg files, you should execute `build.sh` to re-generate images before committing .svg files.

Note that this script is designed for OS X users.

### Edit Android app to add your icon

List definition is written on `IconList` class on Android app project.  
So edit `app/src/main/java/com/github/ksoichiro/appicons/IconList`.

```sh
    public IconList() {
        :
        add(new Icon(R.drawable.ic_action_awesome, "ic_action_awesome"));
    }
```

After editing java file, please execute the following command to check if the app can be built successfully.

```sh
$ ./gradlew installDebug
```
